docs: upgrade from 15 to 16 (#85176)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/02-guides/upgrading/version-16.mdx

```

If you are using TypeScript, ensure you also upgrade `@types/react` and `@types/react-dom` to their latest versions.

## Node.js runtime and browser support

| Requirement   | Change / Details                                                   |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Node.js 20.9+ | Minimum version now `20.9.0` (LTS); Node.js 18 no longer supported |
| TypeScript 5+ | Minimum version now `5.1.0`                                        |
| Browsers      | Chrome 111+, Edge 111+, Firefox 111+, Safari 16.4+                 |

## Turbopack by default

Starting with **Next.js 16**, Turbopack is stable and used by default with `next dev` and `next build`

Previously you had to enable Turbopack using `--turbopack`, or `--turbo`.

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev --turbopack",
    "build": "next build --turbopack",
    "start": "next start"
  }
}
```

This is no longer necessary. You can update your `package.json` scripts:

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start"
  }
}
```

> If you run `next build` without the `--turbopack` flag (the new default), and your Next config contains a `webpack` configuration, the **build will fail** to prevent misconfiguration issues. In this case, you must either:

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing. Can we prelude by what the user wants to do with what in non-technical terms and also in each of the solution options - mention the result like
- explicitly build with `--turbopack`, if you want to force `turbopack` build despite webpack config

- explicitly build with `--turbopack`
- migrate your Webpack configuration to Turbopack
- or [opt out of Turbopack](#opting-out-of-turbopack) using `--webpack`

> **Good to know**: If you see failing builds because a `webpack` configuration was found, but you don't define one yourself, it is likely that a plugin is adding a `webpack` option

### Opting out of Turbopack

If you need to continue using Webpack, you can opt out with the `--webpack` flag. For example, to use Turbopack in development but Webpack for production builds:

```json filename="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build --webpack",
    "start": "next start"
  }
}
```

> We recommend using Turbopack for development and production. Submit a comment to this [thread](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/77721), if you are still unable to switch to Turbopack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using Turbopack for development and production. Submit a comment to this [thread](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/77721), if you are unable to switch to Turbopack.
```

> ### Turbopack Configuration Location

Reviewer: Should we be consistent? In other places, I only see the first word capitalized for headlines
```
### Resolve alias fallback
```

Author: ```suggestion
### Turbopack configuration location
```

The `experimental.turbopack` configuration is out of experimental.

```ts filename="next.config.ts"
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

// Next.js 15 - experimental.turbopack
const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    turbopack: {
      // options
    },
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

> It is now moved to be top-level option `turbopack`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use it as a top-level `turbopack` option:
```

```ts filename="next.config.ts"
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

// Next.js 16 - turbopack at the top level of nextConfig
const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  turbopack: {
    // options
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

Make sure to review the `Turbopack` configuration [options](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/turbopack). **Next.js 16** introduces various improvements and new options, for example:

- [Advanced Webpack loader conditions](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/turbopack#advanced-webpack-loader-conditions)
- [debugIds](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/turbopack#debug-ids)

### Resolve alias fallback

> In some projects client-side code, may import files containing Node.js native modules. This causes `Module not found: Can't resolve 'fs'` type of errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some projects, client-side code may import files containing Node.js native modules. This will cause `Module not found: Can't resolve 'fs'` type of errors.
```

When this happens, you should refactor your code so that your client-side bundles do not reference these Node.js native modules.

However, in some cases, this might not be possible. In Webpack the `resolve.fallback` option was typically used to **silence** the error. Turbopack offers a similar option, using `turbopack.resolveAlias`. In this case, tell Turbopack to load an empty module when `fs` is requested for the browser.

```ts filename="next.config.ts"
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  turbopack: {
    resolveAlias: {
      fs: {
        browser: './empty.ts', // We recommend to fix code imports before using this method
      },
    },
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

> Once again, it is preferable to refactor your modules so that client code doesn't ever import from modules using Node.js native modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is preferable to refactor your modules so that client code doesn't ever import from modules using Node.js native modules.
```

- **Layout deduplication**: When prefetching multiple URLs with a shared layout, the layout is downloaded once.
- **Incremental prefetching**: Next.js only prefetches parts not already in cache, rather than entire pages.

These changes require **no code modifications** and are designed to improve performance across all apps.

However, you may see more individual prefetch requests with much lower total transfer sizes. We believe this is the right trade-off for nearly all applications.

If the increased request count causes issues, please let us know by creating an [issue](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues) or [discussion](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions) item.

## Partial Pre-Rendering (PPR)

**Next.js 16** removes the experimental **Partial Pre-Rendering (PPR)** flag and configuration options. PPR is being integrated into [Cache Components](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents).

Starting with **Next.js 16**, you can opt into PPR using the `cacheComponents` configuration.

> Modify your Next config file from `ppr: true`:

Reviewer: This tripped me! I would start with what you should do first and follow with previous configuration
